---
layout: post
title: Facebook
---

#### Facebook.  What goes up, must come down - right? 

In the last two years, I have become disenchanted with Facebook, and as this [data](http://finance.yahoo.com/blogs/breakout/facebook-still-1-teens-watch-twitter-says-munster-115045017.html) points out, I'm not the only one.  

Two or three years ago, most people would have agreed that Facebook was one of the strongest tech companies out there.  Today, however, the same enthusiasm is hard to come by.  Following a series of lackluster milepoints including their IPO, the privacy debacle in late 2012, and most recently, the launch of Facebook Home, the company's momentum is slowing.  

[Financially](https://www.google.com/finance?q=NASDAQ%3AFB&fstype=ii&ei=kpqCUdCABcalrQHK2wE), the company looks middle aged.  Profit margins and user growth rates are declining, despite increases in annual revenue.  This implies that Facebook is becoming less effective at making making money.  Although mobile advertisements accounted for 30% of revenue in the first quarter of 2013, an increase from 0 in 2012, it can be argued that this is cannibalized from desktop ads [^1].  

The point that I'm getting at here is that from ethics to operating margins, there are very few indicators that tell me Facebook is in a strong position, save the sheer size of their user base.  

Whatever their plans for the future, I think that Facebook should focus on making their users as happy as possible.  This is their competitive advantage against every other social media service on the web.  Although it could be argued that Facebook has its users trapped in the service due the effort required to replace the service, as a general principle in business, you want your customers to *want* to be there.  Facebook amazed us all with a meteoric rise to the top of the world, but in the fast paced world that we live in, who is to say that a similarly fast drop to the bottom isn't possible?  

[^1]: Data collected from Google Finance